Is vaccination necessary?
No, vaccination is not mandatory. But the government highly encourages the public to get vaccinated and be protected against preventable disease.
What are the possible side effects of vaccination?
The possible side effects of a vaccine include pain, redness, itchiness or swelling at the injection site; fever; feeling of weakness or fatigue; headache; dizziness; diarrhea; or nausea. Consult the nearest healthcare professional if you experience any of these side effects.
Am I still “fully vaccinated” if I don’t have a third dose?
It is not necessarily required, but highly encouraged for those who are more vulnerable to COVID-19, who are but not limited to: senior citizens and the immuno-compromised.
Do boosters use the same ingredients as the vaccine?
The first batches may use the same ingredients, but the later ones are tweaked so that they’re well-adjusted against the newer COVID-19 variants.
How do vaccines work?
Vaccines mimic the virus or bacteria that causes disease and triggers the body’s creation of antibodies. These antibodies will provide protection once a person is infected with the actual disease-causing virus or bacteria.
How do vaccines differ?
Vaccines differ in their composition and how they trigger the immune response to create antibodies. These antibodies protect the body from microorganisms and serve as protection once a person gets infected with disease. Vaccines can be inactivated, weakened or killed copies of the whole or part of the virus or bacteria, or genetic product (like mRNA vaccines) that creates protein copies without causing disease.
Why do we need to get vaccinated for COVID-19?
With the BIDA steps and observance of minimum public health standards, vaccination is an important way to protect yourself from getting severe COVID-19.
When will the COVID-19 vaccine be available?
It is an authorization granted through a risk-based procedure for assessing unregistered (under development) vaccines or drugs during public health emergencies of international concern. It aims to expedite availability of the vaccine or drug to people affected by public health emergency based on essential set of available quality, safety and efficacy performance data.
Why will the prioritized groups get the vaccine first?
With the initial limited supply, frontline health workers and uniformed personnel are prioritized since they have higher risk of exposure while on duty and to allow them to continue fulfilling their duties in both the public and private sectors. Vulnerable groups such as the elderly and the indigent population, are prioritized guided by the principle of equity.
Is the vaccine free for priority groups?
The cost of vaccines for priority groups will be shouldered by the Philippine government.
Are there risks for complications when given the COVID-19 vaccine?
Yes, like all other vaccines, there are risks of complications BUT SEVERE OR LIFE-THREATENING REACTIONS ARE EXTREMELY RARE. The benefit of protection against severe COVID-19 is greater than the risk. Anyone who will get the vaccine will be properly evaluated and closely monitored by health professionals to further minimize any risk.