What vaccines are currently available for COVID-19 in the Philippines?
As of August 2021, It has been reported that the COVID-19 vaccines available in the Philippines are Johnson & Johnson, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Moderna, Sputnik, and Sinovac. (Source: https://health-desk.org/articles/what-covid-19-vaccines-are-available-in-the-philippines-and-how-are-they-each-different)
How is the vaccination process organized in the Philippines?
The vaccination process recommended by Department of Health (DOH) and implemented by the LGU (Local Government Unit) involves registering with the LGU, scheduling to avoid overcrowding, vaccination, and post-vaccination monitoring. Note that LGUs may tweak this process based on their needs. (Source: https://mb.com.ph/2021/05/27/the-vaccination-process/)
Who is eligible for vaccination in the Philippines?
As of April 2021, NO you are not eligible to receive the vaccine if (1) you are under 18 years old, (2) are allergic to any of the available vaccine's components, or (3) if you have experienced a severe allergic reaction to the first dose. YES You are eligible with precautions if (1) you have a history of bleeding disorders, (2) are allergic to food, egg, or medicine, or (3) have a history of asthma. (Read more here: https://doh.gov.ph/Vaccines/Am-I-eligible-to-get-the-COVID-19-vaccine)
What are the common side effects of COVID-19 vaccines in the Philippines?
Potential vaccine side effects encompass discomfort such as pain, redness, itching, or swelling at the injection site, typically lasting a few hours. Other effects may include fever, weakness, fatigue, headache, dizziness, diarrhea, or nausea. Should any of these symptoms arise, it is advisable to seek guidance from the nearest healthcare professional. (Source: https://doh.gov.ph/faqs/vaccines)
Is vaccination mandatory?
No, vaccination is not mandatory. But the government highly encourages the public to get vaccinated and be protected against preventable disease. (Source: https://doh.gov.ph/faqs/vaccines)
Who will get the vaccines first?
Frontline health workers, senior citizens, indigent population, and uniformed personnel are the priority groups to be vaccinated. (Source: https://doh.gov.ph/faqs/vaccines)
Is the vaccine free for priority groups?
The cost of vaccines for priority groups will be shouldered by the Philippine government. If you are not part of the priority group, the government is continuing negotiations to ensure adequate vaccine supply for all Filipinos, including those not in the priority groups. (https://doh.gov.ph/faqs/vaccines)
Is the COVID-19 vaccine safe?
COVID-19 vaccines that are granted with Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) are considered safe and effective based on the available evidence to date. the EUA is an authorization granted through a risk-based procedure for assessing unregistered (under development) vaccines or drugs during public health emergencies of international concern. It aims to expedite availability of the vaccine or drug to people affected by public health emergency based on essential set of available quality, safety and efficacy performance data.